README.md, before:

# 🎬 Movie Recommender System

[![Python 3.9+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![MovieLens](https://img.shields.io/badge/Dataset-MovieLens%20100K-red.svg)](https://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/100k/)

A production-ready movie recommender system using **collaborative filtering** with **matrix factorization (SVD)**. Built with scikit-surprise on the MovieLens 100K dataset, achieving excellent performance metrics (RMSE: 0.94, nDCG@10: 0.82).

![Demo Output](evaluation_results.png)

## 🌟 Overview
This project demonstrates a **collaborative filtering recommender system** using matrix factorization (SVD algorithm) on the MovieLens 100K dataset with comprehensive evaluation and documentation.

## 📊 Performance Metrics

| Metric | Value | Interpretation |
|--------|-------|----------------|
| **RMSE** | 0.9352 | Excellent prediction accuracy |
| **MAE** | 0.7375 | Average error <1 rating point |
| **Precision@10** | 58.37% | More than half are relevant |
| **MAP@10** | 0.8225 | Outstanding ranking quality |
| **nDCG@10** | 0.8232 | Excellent position-aware ranking |
| **MRR** | 0.8817 | First relevant at position ~1.1 |

**16.95% improvement over baseline** ✅

## 📁 Project Structure
```
Assignment2/
├── demo.py                      # Interactive demonstration
├── recommender.py               # Core recommendation engine
├── data_loader.py              # Data handling and preprocessing
├── evaluator.py                # Evaluation metrics
├── requirements.txt            # Python dependencies
├── README.md                   # This file (Quick start guide)
├── COMPREHENSIVE_SUMMARY.md    # Complete technical documentation
└── data/                       # MovieLens dataset (auto-downloaded)
    ├── u.data                  # 100,000 ratings
    ├── u.item                  # 1,682 movies
    └── u.user                  # 943 users
```

## 🚀 Setup Instructions

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.12 or higher (recommended for scikit-surprise compatibility)
- pip package manager

### Installation Steps

1. **Create Virtual Environment**
```bash
python3.12 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On macOS/Linux
# OR
venv\Scripts\activate  # On Windows
```

2. **Install Dependencies**
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. **Run the Demo**
```bash
python demo.py
```

This will:
- 📥 Download the MovieLens 100K dataset (if not already cached)
- 🔄 Train the SVD model (~5 seconds)
- 🎬 Demonstrate 3 use cases with real recommendations
- 📊 Evaluate with 9 different metrics
- 📈 Generate visualization (evaluation_results.png)

## 🎯 Use Cases & Examples

The demo application demonstrates three practical use cases for the recommender system:

### Use Case 1: Personalized Movie Recommendations for Weekend Plans

**Scenario:** A user is looking for movie recommendations for the weekend. The system analyzes their viewing history to predict what they'll enjoy.

**Input:**
- User ID: `196` (an existing user in the database)
- Number of recommendations: `10`

**Process:**
1. System retrieves User 196's viewing history and highly-rated movies
2. Uses learned latent factors to identify patterns in their preferences
3. Compares with similar users' preferences
4. Generates predictions for movies they haven't seen yet

**Output:**
```
Top 10 Recommended Movies for User 196:
  1. Titanic (1997)                                  (Predicted Rating: 4.85)
  2. L.A. Confidential (1997)                        (Predicted Rating: 4.78)
  3. Good Will Hunting (1997)                        (Predicted Rating: 4.75)
  4. As Good As It Gets (1997)                       (Predicted Rating: 4.72)
  5. Contact (1997)                                  (Predicted Rating: 4.68)
  ...
```

**Code Example:**
```python
recommendations = recommender.recommend_for_user(user_id=196, n=10)
# Returns DataFrame with columns: movie_id, title, predicted_rating
```

**Interpretation:** The system predicts which movies the user will rate highly based on patterns learned from their history and similar users' preferences.

---

### Use Case 2: Similar Movie Discovery

**Scenario:** A user loved "Toy Story (1995)" and wants to find similar movies they might enjoy.

**Input:**
- Movie: "Toy Story (1995)"
- Movie ID: `1`
- Number of similar movies: `10`

**Process:**
1. System retrieves the latent factor vector for Toy Story
2. Calculates cosine similarity between Toy Story and all other movies
3. Ranks movies by similarity score
4. Returns top N most similar movies

**Output:**
```
Movies Similar to 'Toy Story (1995)':
  1. Aladdin (1992)                                  (Similarity: 0.9234)
  2. Lion King, The (1994)                           (Similarity: 0.9102)
  3. Beauty and the Beast (1991)                     (Similarity: 0.8956)
  4. Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981)                  (Similarity: 0.8834)
  5. Star Wars (1977)                                (Similarity: 0.8723)
  ...
```

**Code Example:**
```python
similar_movies = recommender.recommend_similar_movies(item_id=1, n=10)
# Returns DataFrame with columns: movie_id, title, similarity
```

**Interpretation:** These movies have similar latent factors (patterns in how users rate them), suggesting viewers who enjoyed Toy Story will likely enjoy these recommendations as well.

---

### Use Case 3: Recommendation Diversity Across Different User Profiles

**Scenario:** Comparing how the system provides personalized recommendations for users with different taste profiles to demonstrate personalization capability.

**Input:**
- User IDs: `1`, `100`, `200` (three users with different demographics and preferences)
- Number of recommendations per user: `3`

**Process:**
1. For each user, retrieve their demographic info and viewing history
2. Identify their favorite movies (5-star ratings)
3. Generate personalized recommendations based on their unique profile
4. Compare to show diversity

**Output:**
```
👤 User 1:
   Age: 24, Gender: M, Occupation: Technician
   Favorite Movie: Pulp Fiction (1994) (rated 5.0)
   Top 3 Recommendations:
     1. Fargo (1996) (4.82)
     2. English Patient, The (1996) (4.75)
     3. Godfather, The (1972) (4.68)

👤 User 100:
   Age: 30, Gender: F, Occupation: Educator
   Favorite Movie: Sense and Sensibility (1995) (rated 5.0)
   Top 3 Recommendations:
     1. Emma (1996) (4.91)
     2. Much Ado About Nothing (1993) (4.85)
     3. Persuasion (1995) (4.78)

👤 User 200:
   Age: 21, Gender: M, Occupation: Student
   Favorite Movie: Star Wars (1977) (rated 5.0)
   Top 3 Recommendations:
     1. Empire Strikes Back, The (1980) (4.95)
     2. Return of the Jedi (1983) (4.88)
     3. Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) (4.82)
```

**Code Example:**
```python
for user_id in [1, 100, 200]:
    recommendations = recommender.recommend_for_user(user_id, n=3)
    print(f"User {user_id}: {recommendations}")
```

**Interpretation:** The system provides truly personalized recommendations that differ significantly based on each user's unique viewing history, demographics, and preferences. This demonstrates the collaborative filtering approach captures individual taste profiles effectively.

---

## ✨ Features

- **Matrix Factorization**: Uses SVD (Singular Value Decomposition) algorithm
- **9 Evaluation Metrics**: RMSE, MAE, Precision@K, Recall@K, F1@K, MAP, nDCG, MRR, Coverage
- **Data Source**: MovieLens 100K dataset from GroupLens Research
- **Interactive Demo**: Shows real recommendations with explanations
- **Auto Data Download**: Automatically fetches and caches dataset
- **Production Quality**: Modular architecture, error handling, comprehensive documentation

## 🔧 Model Training & Hyperparameters

### Training Process

The recommender system trains through the following steps:

1. **Data Loading & Splitting**
   - Loads MovieLens 100K dataset (100,000 ratings)
   - Splits into training (80% = 80,000 ratings) and test (20% = 20,000 ratings) sets

2. **Model Fitting**
   - Runs SVD algorithm on the training set
   - Iteratively learns latent factors through 20 epochs
   - Each epoch = one complete pass through all 80,000 training ratings
   - Uses Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) to minimize prediction error

3. **Convergence**
   - Model adjusts user and item factor matrices each epoch
   - Learning rate controls step size of adjustments
   - Regularization prevents overfitting to training data

### Hyperparameters Explained

| Parameter | Value | Description | Purpose |
|-----------|-------|-------------|---------|
| **n_factors** | 100 | Number of latent factors | Defines model complexity. These are hidden characteristics (like "action-packed," "emotional depth") that the model learns. 100 factors provide good balance between capturing patterns and avoiding overfitting. |
| **n_epochs** | 20 | Training iterations | How many times the model reviews the entire training dataset. More epochs = more learning, but too many can cause overfitting. |
| **lr_all** | 0.005 | Learning rate | Controls how big the "steps" are when adjusting the model. Too high = unstable/overshooting, too low = slow convergence. 0.005 is a balanced value. |
| **reg_all** | 0.02 | Regularization term | Penalty for complex models to prevent overfitting. Forces the model to find simpler patterns that generalize better to new data. |

### What Happens During Training?

```python
# Initialize with hyperparameters
recommender = MovieRecommender(
    n_factors=100,    # Learn 100 hidden characteristics
    n_epochs=20,      # Train for 20 complete passes
    lr_all=0.005,     # Small, steady learning steps
    reg_all=0.02      # Moderate overfitting prevention
)

# Train the model
recommender.train(test_size=0.2)  # 80-20 train-test split
```

**Training Output:**
- Takes ~5 seconds on modern hardware
- Processes 80,000 ratings × 20 epochs = 1.6 million training examples
- Learns 943 user factor vectors + 1,682 movie factor vectors
- Each vector has 100 dimensions (the latent factors)

### Why These Values?

- **100 factors**: Standard for datasets of this size. Fewer might miss patterns, more might overfit.
- **20 epochs**: Empirically found to be sufficient for convergence without excessive training time.
- **0.005 learning rate**: Small enough for stability, large enough for reasonable convergence speed.
- **0.02 regularization**: Balanced to prevent overfitting while still allowing the model to learn complex patterns.

## 🏗️ System Architecture

### Component Diagram
```
                    demo.py (Demo Application)
                         │
       ┌─────────────────┼─────────────────┐
       │                 │                 │
       ▼                 ▼                 ▼
  data_loader.py    recommender.py    evaluator.py
       │                 │                 │
       ▼                 ▼                 ▼
  MovieLens 100K    Surprise SVD     NumPy/Pandas
```

### Data Flow
```
Download → Preprocess → Train → Predict → Evaluate → Display
```

### Matrix Factorization
```
Rating Matrix (943×1682) → SVD → User Factors + Item Factors
Prediction: r̂ᵤᵢ = μ + bᵤ + bᵢ + pᵤᵀqᵢ
```

## 🛠️ Technologies

- **[scikit-surprise](http://surpriselib.com/)** (1.1.4) - Recommendation algorithms (SVD)
- **[NumPy](https://numpy.org/)** (1.26.4) - Numerical computing
- **[Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/)** (2.x) - Data manipulation
- **[Matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/)** (3.7.0+) - Visualization
- **[Scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/)** (1.3.0+) - ML utilities

## 📚 Dataset

**Source:** [MovieLens 100K](https://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/100k/)  
**Provider:** GroupLens Research Lab, University of Minnesota  
**Size:** 100,000 ratings from 943 users on 1,682 movies  
**Rating Scale:** 1-5 (integers)  
**Sparsity:** 93.7% sparse

## 📈 Evaluation Metrics

- **Accuracy**: RMSE, MAE - Measure prediction error
- **Relevance**: Precision@10, Recall@10, F1@10 - Classification metrics
- **Ranking**: MAP@10, nDCG@10, MRR - Position-aware metrics
- **Diversity**: Coverage - Catalog diversity

## 📖 Documentation

- **`README.md`** (this file) - Quick start guide and project overview
- **`COMPREHENSIVE_SUMMARY.md`** - Complete technical documentation including:
  - Task approach and methodology
  - Module descriptions
  - Libraries and information flow
  - Testing and calculations
  - Data source details

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **GroupLens Research** for the MovieLens dataset
- **Nicolas Hug** for the Surprise library

## 📧 Contact

For questions about this implementation, please see the comprehensive documentation in `COMPREHENSIVE_SUMMARY.md` or open an issue on GitHub.

---

**Built with ❤️ using Python and scikit-surprise**

Commit message:

Add MyBinder launch option for browser-based demo
- Added MyBinder link as alternative to local installation
- Users can now run the demo directly in browser without setup
- Link opens JupyterLab environment with pre-installed dependencies
- Positioned after local installation instructions for easy discovery

README.md, after:

# 🎬 Movie Recommender System

[![Python 3.9+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![MovieLens](https://img.shields.io/badge/Dataset-MovieLens%20100K-red.svg)](https://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/100k/)

A production-ready movie recommender system using **collaborative filtering** with **matrix factorization (SVD)**. Built with scikit-surprise on the MovieLens 100K dataset, achieving excellent performance metrics (RMSE: 0.94, nDCG@10: 0.82).

![Demo Output](evaluation_results.png)

## 🌟 Overview
This project demonstrates a **collaborative filtering recommender system** using matrix factorization (SVD algorithm) on the MovieLens 100K dataset with comprehensive evaluation and documentation.

## 📊 Performance Metrics

| Metric | Value | Interpretation |
|--------|-------|----------------|
| **RMSE** | 0.9352 | Excellent prediction accuracy |
| **MAE** | 0.7375 | Average error <1 rating point |
| **Precision@10** | 58.37% | More than half are relevant |
| **MAP@10** | 0.8225 | Outstanding ranking quality |
| **nDCG@10** | 0.8232 | Excellent position-aware ranking |
| **MRR** | 0.8817 | First relevant at position ~1.1 |

**16.95% improvement over baseline** ✅

## 📁 Project Structure
```
Assignment2/
├── demo.py                      # Interactive demonstration
├── recommender.py               # Core recommendation engine
├── data_loader.py              # Data handling and preprocessing
├── evaluator.py                # Evaluation metrics
├── requirements.txt            # Python dependencies
├── README.md                   # This file (Quick start guide)
├── COMPREHENSIVE_SUMMARY.md    # Complete technical documentation
└── data/                       # MovieLens dataset (auto-downloaded)
    ├── u.data                  # 100,000 ratings
    ├── u.item                  # 1,682 movies
    └── u.user                  # 943 users
```

## 🚀 Setup Instructions

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.12 or higher (recommended for scikit-surprise compatibility)
- pip package manager

### Installation Steps

1. **Create Virtual Environment**
```bash
python3.12 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On macOS/Linux
# OR
venv\Scripts\activate  # On Windows
```

2. **Install Dependencies**
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. **Run the Demo**
```bash
python demo.py
```

This will:
- 📥 Download the MovieLens 100K dataset (if not already cached)
- 🔄 Train the SVD model (~5 seconds)
- 🎬 Demonstrate 3 use cases with real recommendations
- 📊 Evaluate with 9 different metrics
- 📈 Generate visualization (evaluation_results.png)

### Alternative: Run in Browser (MyBinder)

You can also run this project directly in your browser without any local setup using MyBinder:

🚀 **[Launch Interactive Demo on MyBinder](https://hub.2i2c.mybinder.org/user/sudhamanc-drexe-edaiassignment2-zk7ih11j/lab)**

This opens a JupyterLab environment with all dependencies pre-installed. Simply open `demo.py` and run it, or create a new notebook to experiment with the recommender system interactively.

## 🎯 Use Cases & Examples

The demo application demonstrates three practical use cases for the recommender system:

### Use Case 1: Personalized Movie Recommendations for Weekend Plans

**Scenario:** A user is looking for movie recommendations for the weekend. The system analyzes their viewing history to predict what they'll enjoy.

**Input:**
- User ID: `196` (an existing user in the database)
- Number of recommendations: `10`

**Process:**
1. System retrieves User 196's viewing history and highly-rated movies
2. Uses learned latent factors to identify patterns in their preferences
3. Compares with similar users' preferences
4. Generates predictions for movies they haven't seen yet

**Output:**
```
Top 10 Recommended Movies for User 196:
  1. Titanic (1997)                                  (Predicted Rating: 4.85)
  2. L.A. Confidential (1997)                        (Predicted Rating: 4.78)
  3. Good Will Hunting (1997)                        (Predicted Rating: 4.75)
  4. As Good As It Gets (1997)                       (Predicted Rating: 4.72)
  5. Contact (1997)                                  (Predicted Rating: 4.68)
  ...
```

**Code Example:**
```python
recommendations = recommender.recommend_for_user(user_id=196, n=10)
# Returns DataFrame with columns: movie_id, title, predicted_rating
```

**Interpretation:** The system predicts which movies the user will rate highly based on patterns learned from their history and similar users' preferences.

---

### Use Case 2: Similar Movie Discovery

**Scenario:** A user loved "Toy Story (1995)" and wants to find similar movies they might enjoy.

**Input:**
- Movie: "Toy Story (1995)"
- Movie ID: `1`
- Number of similar movies: `10`

**Process:**
1. System retrieves the latent factor vector for Toy Story
2. Calculates cosine similarity between Toy Story and all other movies
3. Ranks movies by similarity score
4. Returns top N most similar movies

**Output:**
```
Movies Similar to 'Toy Story (1995)':
  1. Aladdin (1992)                                  (Similarity: 0.9234)
  2. Lion King, The (1994)                           (Similarity: 0.9102)
  3. Beauty and the Beast (1991)                     (Similarity: 0.8956)
  4. Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981)                  (Similarity: 0.8834)
  5. Star Wars (1977)                                (Similarity: 0.8723)
  ...
```

**Code Example:**
```python
similar_movies = recommender.recommend_similar_movies(item_id=1, n=10)
# Returns DataFrame with columns: movie_id, title, similarity
```

**Interpretation:** These movies have similar latent factors (patterns in how users rate them), suggesting viewers who enjoyed Toy Story will likely enjoy these recommendations as well.

---

### Use Case 3: Recommendation Diversity Across Different User Profiles

**Scenario:** Comparing how the system provides personalized recommendations for users with different taste profiles to demonstrate personalization capability.

**Input:**
- User IDs: `1`, `100`, `200` (three users with different demographics and preferences)
- Number of recommendations per user: `3`

**Process:**
1. For each user, retrieve their demographic info and viewing history
2. Identify their favorite movies (5-star ratings)
3. Generate personalized recommendations based on their unique profile
4. Compare to show diversity

**Output:**
```
👤 User 1:
   Age: 24, Gender: M, Occupation: Technician
   Favorite Movie: Pulp Fiction (1994) (rated 5.0)
   Top 3 Recommendations:
     1. Fargo (1996) (4.82)
     2. English Patient, The (1996) (4.75)
     3. Godfather, The (1972) (4.68)

👤 User 100:
   Age: 30, Gender: F, Occupation: Educator
   Favorite Movie: Sense and Sensibility (1995) (rated 5.0)
   Top 3 Recommendations:
     1. Emma (1996) (4.91)
     2. Much Ado About Nothing (1993) (4.85)
     3. Persuasion (1995) (4.78)

👤 User 200:
   Age: 21, Gender: M, Occupation: Student
   Favorite Movie: Star Wars (1977) (rated 5.0)
   Top 3 Recommendations:
     1. Empire Strikes Back, The (1980) (4.95)
     2. Return of the Jedi (1983) (4.88)
     3. Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) (4.82)
```

**Code Example:**
```python
for user_id in [1, 100, 200]:
    recommendations = recommender.recommend_for_user(user_id, n=3)
    print(f"User {user_id}: {recommendations}")
```

**Interpretation:** The system provides truly personalized recommendations that differ significantly based on each user's unique viewing history, demographics, and preferences. This demonstrates the collaborative filtering approach captures individual taste profiles effectively.

---

## ✨ Features

- **Matrix Factorization**: Uses SVD (Singular Value Decomposition) algorithm
- **9 Evaluation Metrics**: RMSE, MAE, Precision@K, Recall@K, F1@K, MAP, nDCG, MRR, Coverage
- **Data Source**: MovieLens 100K dataset from GroupLens Research
- **Interactive Demo**: Shows real recommendations with explanations
- **Auto Data Download**: Automatically fetches and caches dataset
- **Production Quality**: Modular architecture, error handling, comprehensive documentation

## 🔧 Model Training & Hyperparameters

### Training Process

The recommender system trains through the following steps:

1. **Data Loading & Splitting**
   - Loads MovieLens 100K dataset (100,000 ratings)
   - Splits into training (80% = 80,000 ratings) and test (20% = 20,000 ratings) sets

2. **Model Fitting**
   - Runs SVD algorithm on the training set
   - Iteratively learns latent factors through 20 epochs
   - Each epoch = one complete pass through all 80,000 training ratings
   - Uses Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) to minimize prediction error

3. **Convergence**
   - Model adjusts user and item factor matrices each epoch
   - Learning rate controls step size of adjustments
   - Regularization prevents overfitting to training data

### Hyperparameters Explained

| Parameter | Value | Description | Purpose |
|-----------|-------|-------------|---------|
| **n_factors** | 100 | Number of latent factors | Defines model complexity. These are hidden characteristics (like "action-packed," "emotional depth") that the model learns. 100 factors provide good balance between capturing patterns and avoiding overfitting. |
| **n_epochs** | 20 | Training iterations | How many times the model reviews the entire training dataset. More epochs = more learning, but too many can cause overfitting. |
| **lr_all** | 0.005 | Learning rate | Controls how big the "steps" are when adjusting the model. Too high = unstable/overshooting, too low = slow convergence. 0.005 is a balanced value. |
| **reg_all** | 0.02 | Regularization term | Penalty for complex models to prevent overfitting. Forces the model to find simpler patterns that generalize better to new data. |

### What Happens During Training?

```python
# Initialize with hyperparameters
recommender = MovieRecommender(
    n_factors=100,    # Learn 100 hidden characteristics
    n_epochs=20,      # Train for 20 complete passes
    lr_all=0.005,     # Small, steady learning steps
    reg_all=0.02      # Moderate overfitting prevention
)

# Train the model
recommender.train(test_size=0.2)  # 80-20 train-test split
```

**Training Output:**
- Takes ~5 seconds on modern hardware
- Processes 80,000 ratings × 20 epochs = 1.6 million training examples
- Learns 943 user factor vectors + 1,682 movie factor vectors
- Each vector has 100 dimensions (the latent factors)

### Why These Values?

- **100 factors**: Standard for datasets of this size. Fewer might miss patterns, more might overfit.
- **20 epochs**: Empirically found to be sufficient for convergence without excessive training time.
- **0.005 learning rate**: Small enough for stability, large enough for reasonable convergence speed.
- **0.02 regularization**: Balanced to prevent overfitting while still allowing the model to learn complex patterns.

## 🏗️ System Architecture

### Component Diagram
```
                    demo.py (Demo Application)
                         │
       ┌─────────────────┼─────────────────┐
       │                 │                 │
       ▼                 ▼                 ▼
  data_loader.py    recommender.py    evaluator.py
       │                 │                 │
       ▼                 ▼                 ▼
  MovieLens 100K    Surprise SVD     NumPy/Pandas
```

### Data Flow
```
Download → Preprocess → Train → Predict → Evaluate → Display
```

### Matrix Factorization
```
Rating Matrix (943×1682) → SVD → User Factors + Item Factors
Prediction: r̂ᵤᵢ = μ + bᵤ + bᵢ + pᵤᵀqᵢ
```

## 🛠️ Technologies

- **[scikit-surprise](http://surpriselib.com/)** (1.1.4) - Recommendation algorithms (SVD)
- **[NumPy](https://numpy.org/)** (1.26.4) - Numerical computing
- **[Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/)** (2.x) - Data manipulation
- **[Matplotlib](https://matplotlib.org/)** (3.7.0+) - Visualization
- **[Scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/)** (1.3.0+) - ML utilities

## 📚 Dataset

**Source:** [MovieLens 100K](https://grouplens.org/datasets/movielens/100k/)  
**Provider:** GroupLens Research Lab, University of Minnesota  
**Size:** 100,000 ratings from 943 users on 1,682 movies  
**Rating Scale:** 1-5 (integers)  
**Sparsity:** 93.7% sparse

## 📈 Evaluation Metrics

- **Accuracy**: RMSE, MAE - Measure prediction error
- **Relevance**: Precision@10, Recall@10, F1@10 - Classification metrics
- **Ranking**: MAP@10, nDCG@10, MRR - Position-aware metrics
- **Diversity**: Coverage - Catalog diversity

## 📖 Documentation

- **`README.md`** (this file) - Quick start guide and project overview
- **`COMPREHENSIVE_SUMMARY.md`** - Complete technical documentation including:
  - Task approach and methodology
  - Module descriptions
  - Libraries and information flow
  - Testing and calculations
  - Data source details

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- **GroupLens Research** for the MovieLens dataset
- **Nicolas Hug** for the Surprise library

## 📧 Contact

For questions about this implementation, please see the comprehensive documentation in `COMPREHENSIVE_SUMMARY.md` or open an issue on GitHub.

---

**Built with ❤️ using Python and scikit-surprise**
